# Project 2
**Group Members:**
1. Yash Goel, UFID - 51939756
2. Srikruth Reddy Puram, UFID - 70678514

**Outline:**

We have implemented a gossip simulation in Erlang using the Actor Model. We used Maps to store the index and PID as key-value pairs for faster access. We defined certain convergence parameters to dictate when our program terminates. 

## Usage

1. cd the project folder
2. Start erl shell and compile server, topology, gossip_algorithm and push_sum_algorithm using c(file_name).
3. Run server.erl and give the desired parameters (Number of Nodes, Topology, Algorithm).
4. Run topology.erl
5. Run gossip_algorithm.erl 
6. Run push_sum_algorithm.erl
7. Ignore the warning anf follow the inputs generated by code to start gossiping.

## Implementation Details

To run the program, execute server.erl by following the above directions. Then you will be prompted with "Number of Nodes:", "Topology to use:" and "Algorithm to use:", fill the desired values and start gossiping.

**server.erl**
 
This code takes general inputs from the user, builds the desired topology by calling the other module and spawns the processes accordingly whether its gossip algorithm or push sum algorithm. After spawning the processes it handles the time management and terminates the process.

**topology.erl**

This code implement all the given 4 topologies (Line, 2D, Full Network, Imperfect-3D). We also considered the diagonal cases in both 2D and Imperfect 3D cases to implement the desired topology. 

**gossip_algorithm.erl**

When all nodes get a rumor at least once, we claim that the network has converged and stop sending. We assumed that the Gossip algorithm converges after 90% of the nodes in the network have heard the rumor. We send our PID to server.erl to retrieve the neighbor list, which we then use to transmit the rumor to the appropriate neighbors.

**push_sum.erl**

## Assignment Details

**1. Work Unit:**
1. We varied the number of nodes as a parameter to test the convergence of various topologies.
2. To gain deeper insights, we construct a graph that measures the pace at which distinct topologies converge.

**3. Result for gossip algorithm**

**4. Result for push-sum algorithm**

**5. Largest coin found (i.e., the coin with the highest number of leading 0's)**

